Apache Maven Installation On Windows:
    Prerequisites: Java should be installed.
    
  a.From Maven download page, download the binary zip archive of Maven. 
    Install Maven in Program Files.
    Extract the Maven archive to C:\Program Files\Maven once the download is complete. 
    
  b.Set Environmental Variables for Maven- Setting the Path 
    Open the Start menu and search for environment variables.
    Select the "Edit the system environment variables".
    In the System Properties window, under the Advanced tab, click Environment Variables.
    Under the System variables category, select the Path variable and click Edit.
    Click the New button and enter %MAVEN_HOME%\bin in the new field. 
    Click OK to save changes to the Path variable.
    
  c.Add MAVEN_HOME Variable
   In the Environment Variables window, under the System variables category, click the New… button to create a new variable.
   Name the variable as MAVEN_HOME.
   In the variable value field, paste the path to Maven directory and click OK.
    C:\Program Files\Maven\apache-maven-3.8.4.(version depends on the installation version)
   Click on OK button.
   
   d.Test the Maven Installation
    Run the mvn -version command in the command prompt to make sure Maven installed correctly.
    If installed correctly, the command outputs the Maven version.    
    Note: Sometimes we need to run as adiministrator to view the version in command prompt.
    Type "cmd" in the path and press enter.
    C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe
    Now check the maven version.

Build Automation System is language specific.
     For Java Projects ---------------Maven is used mostly. Gradle and Ant are also used sometimes.
     For C Projects-------------------Make/CMake is used.     
    
  y. Maven: Maven is a tool that is used to compile, validate codes and analyse the test cases in the code.(Apache Maven)
     It manages the building, reporting and documentation from Source Control Management(SCM).
     Maven projects are configured through Project Object Model(POM).
     pom.xml file contains documentation for all the objects, properties, methods and events.
     
     Maven is capable of:
     1. Gathering the data about the software project and build on its own.
     2. Managing the build process.
     3. Software project is modeled by Maven.
     4. Project Information is centralized through Maven.
     5. Maven documents the software and project.
     6. Deployable artifacts are generated from source code.
     7. Maven compiles the source code, packaged,tested and distributed.
     8. Reports are created and website is generated for the project.
     
     Objectives of Maven:
     1. Make the build process easy.
     2. Provide uniform build system.
     3. Gives quality project information.
     4. Provide guide lines for best practices development.
     5. Allow transparent migration to new feautures.
     
     Maven Build Lifecycle:
     1.In Maven, the build is run using a predefined and ordered set of steps to call the build life-cycle.
     2. The configuration in the project file determines the build tasks that will be performed during each phase.
     3. Maven relies on build lifecycles to define the process of building and distributing artifacts(Ex: Jar files, war files).
     4. There are three built-in build lifecycles.
        . Default-handles project building and deployment.
        . Clean -handles project cleaning
        . Site - handles project site generation.
        
      POM.xml File contains:
      
        <groupID>-------------------Organisation deploying the project
        <artifactID>----------------Project Name
        <Version>-------------------Current version (SNAPSHOT-means work in progress)
        POM will contain the project details, Plugin's and Project's Maven Configuration.
      Output of project is war files.
      
     Maven Architecture: 
     It will consist of Remote Repositories, Local Repositories, Core Engine and Plug-in's.
     
     Plug-in: It provides extra functionality and gives more commands.
     Dependencies: Are required todointernal tasks, no extra commands.
     
     Dependencies:
     1. Maven comes into picture for dependencies.
     2. Manages hundreds of plug-ins.
     3. Dependencies get cached into the local repository.
     4. Manages the transitive dependencies.
     5. Provides multiple scope for including dependencies.
     
     Maven through terminal:
     Pre-requisite: Java needs to be installed for Maven to run.
     JDK-Java development toolkit which includes JRE(Java Runtime Environment) and JVM(Java Virtual Machine).
     JDK also includes number of programming tools, like a compiler and java webserver.
     
     1. Install the Maven tar file after verifying the signature.
     2. After installing the Maven, check its version from ubuntu terminal with the command
        $mvn -version
     3. The below command is used to create a project using Maven
        $mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.mycompany.app -DartifactId=my-app -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DinteractiveMode=false
     
     Build the Package in Maven through terminal:
     1.Command to build the Maven project
        $mvn package
     2.The newly compiled and build project can be tested by using the below command
        $java -cp target/my-app-1.0 proj_name.jar com.mycompany.app.App
        the above command will print the output of the project
     
     Maven Lifecycle Phases:
     1. validate-check if project is correct, having all the necessary information.
     2. compile-compile the source code of the project.(It will download all plug-ins, compile all the files and generate POM.xml file).
     3. test-Test the compiled source code using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code to be packed or deployed.
     4. package-Take the compiled source code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
     5. integration-test-process and deploy the package into an environment where integration tests can be run.
     6. verify-run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.
     7. install-install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.
     8. deploy-copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects. Done in an integraton or release environment.
     
     If we execute any phase, it will execute previous phases as well.
