Java Installation On Windows:
a.Check if Java Is Installed
  Before installing the Java Development Kit, check if a Java version is already installed on Windows.
  Open a command prompt by typing cmd in the search bar and press Enter.

  Run the following command:
  java -version
  The command outputs the Java version on your system.
  If Java isn't installed, the output is a message stating that Java isn't recognized as an internal or external command.
  
 b.Download Java for Windows 10
  Navigate to the Oracle Java Downloads page.
  Select Java 17 tab.
  Click the x64 Installer download link under the Windows category. 
  Download the installation file.
  
 c.Install & Configure the Installation Wizard
   Double click on the Installer, select Program Files as the folder for installation and finish installation.
   After successfully Installed message appears,close the wizard.
   
 d.Set Environmental Variables in Java- Setting the Path and JAVA_HOME
    Open the Start menu and search for environment variables.
    Select the Edit the system environment variables.
    In the System Properties window, under the Advanced tab, click Environment Variables.
    Under the System variables category, select the Path variable and click Edit.
    Click the New button and enter the path to the Java bin directory.
      C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-17.0.1\bin
    Click OK to save the changes.
    
 e.Add JAVA_HOME Variable
   In the Environment Variables window, under the System variables category, click the New… button to create a new variable.
   Name the variable as JAVA_HOME.
   In the variable value field, paste the path to your Java jdk directory and click OK.
    C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-17.0.1.
   Click on OK button.
   
  f.Test the Java Installation
    Run the java -version command in the command prompt to make sure Java installed correctly.
    If installed correctly, the command outputs the Java version.
    Note: Sometimes we need to run as adiministrator to view the version in command prompt.
    Type "cmd" in the path and press enter.
    C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe
    Now check the java version.
